{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs24\lang9 Dylan Lawson\par
Dr. Angela Yu\par
Python Bootcamp\par
14th November 2022\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc Python Bootcamp Notes\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs28 Section 3: Beginner - Control Flow and Logical Operators\par
\ul\b0 28. Day 3 Goals: What we will make by the end of the day\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\fs24 We briefly walk through the topics that we will discuss and the project that we will design.\b\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul\b0 29. Control Flow with if/else and Conditional Operators\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\fs24 Here we learned about If/Else statements, Scope, and Conditional Operators\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}If statements evaluate is a given condition is true or false\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 If the condition is true, the code in the If block will be executed\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}If the condition is false, the code in the elif or else block will be executed\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 If statements use indentation to indicate a code block's scope. \par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Without the indentations, the IDE will throw an error\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 There are 6 Comparison Operators:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 > - Greater Than\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}< - Lesser Than\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}>= - Greater Than or Equal To\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}<= - Lesser Than or Equal To\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}== - Equal To\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}!= - Not Equal To\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://replit.com/@igotmail/Section3-Lecture29303134-IfElse#main.py }}{\fldrslt{https://replit.com/@igotmail/Section3-Lecture29303134-IfElse#main.py\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul\fs28 30. Interactive Coding Exercise - Odd or Even? Introducing the Modulo %\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\fs24 Here we use the Modulo operator %\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}This operator returns the remainder of a division calculation\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 For example 8 % 2 = 0 -> The remainder is 0\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}2 divides into 8 four times -> 2 * 4 = 8. So, there is no remainder left. \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}This is an indication that 8 is an even number as all even numbers can be divided by 2 and leave no remainder \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Another example is 13 % 2 = 1\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}2 * 6 = 12. 13 - 12 = 1. 1 is the remainder of 13 / 2\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://replit.com/@igotmail/Section3-Lecture29303134-IfElse#main.py }}{\fldrslt{https://replit.com/@igotmail/Section3-Lecture29303134-IfElse#main.py\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul\fs28 31. Nested if Statements and elif statements\fs24\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone Here, we improve our prior if statement from lecture 29 and introduce nested if statements and elif statements\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1 You can have as many elif statements in an if block as you want\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://replit.com/@igotmail/Section3-Lecture29303134-IfElse#main.py }}{\fldrslt{https://replit.com/@igotmail/Section3-Lecture29303134-IfElse#main.py\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul\fs28 32. Interactive Code Exercise BMI 2.0\ulnone\fs22\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 {\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://replit.com/@igotmail/Section3-Lecture31-BMICalculator#main.py }}{\fldrslt{https://replit.com/@igotmail/Section3-Lecture31-BMICalculator#main.py\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul\fs28 33. Interactive Coding Exercise - Leap Year\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\fs24 I created a flow chart that helped with programming this challenge: Section3_Lecture33_LeapYear.Draw.io.png\ul\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\ulnone{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://replit.com/@igotmail/Section3-Lecture33-LeapYear#main.py }}{\fldrslt{https://replit.com/@igotmail/Section3-Lecture33-LeapYear#main.py\ul0\cf0}}}}\ulnone\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul\fs28 34. Multiple If Statements in Succession\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\fs24 Here we learned about using nested if statements to capture multiple scenarios for our code\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://replit.com/@igotmail/Section3-Lecture29303134-IfElse#main.py }}{\fldrslt{https://replit.com/@igotmail/Section3-Lecture29303134-IfElse#main.py\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul\fs28 35. Interactive Coding Exercise - Pizza Order Challenge\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\fs24 Here we practiced using if-elif-else and nested if statements to complete a code challenge\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://replit.com/@igotmail/Section3-Lecture35-PizzaOrder#main.py }}{\fldrslt{https://replit.com/@igotmail/Section3-Lecture35-PizzaOrder#main.py\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul\fs28 36. Logical Operators\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\fs24 Here we learned more about the \b and\b0 , \b or\b0 , and \b not\b0  logical operators\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://replit.com/@igotmail/Section3-Lecture36-LogicalOperators#main.py }}{\fldrslt{https://replit.com/@igotmail/Section3-Lecture36-LogicalOperators#main.py\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul\fs28 37. Interactive Coding Exercise - Love Calculator\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\fs24 Here we utilized the .lower() function, .count() function, logical operators, and string concatenation to create a love calculation program\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://replit.com/@igotmail/Section3-Lecture37-LoveCalculator#main.py }}{\fldrslt{https://replit.com/@igotmail/Section3-Lecture37-LoveCalculator#main.py\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul\fs28 38. Day 3 Project - Treasure Island\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\fs24 Here we utilized nested if statements to create a small choice based game.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Here is the original working version: {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://replit.com/@igotmail/Section3-Lecture38-TreasureIsland#main.py }}{\fldrslt{https://replit.com/@igotmail/Section3-Lecture38-TreasureIsland#main.py\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Here is the version that has recursion: {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://replit.com/@igotmail/Section3-Lecture38-TreasureIslandRecursion#main.py }}{\fldrslt{https://replit.com/@igotmail/Section3-Lecture38-TreasureIslandRecursion#main.py\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs28 End of Section 3\b0\fs24\par
\par
\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 